TESTed (#124)
dodona-edu/dodona-edu.github.io: en/references/tested-judge/template-description/README.md

---
title: "TESTed description templates"
description: "TESTed description templates"
---

> # Documentation description templates

Reviewer: Is this a reference or a guide? The introduction reads more like a tutorial, yet the file resides under `references`.

Description templates are used to only write a description once.

> That description can be instantiated foreach programming language that is necessary with the correct names and style

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That description can be instantiated for each programming language that is necessary with the correct names and style
```

conventions.

> The description templates will be written using the Mako templating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description templates are written using the Mako templating system.
```

> TESTed supported two markup languages for the exercises: Markdown and HTML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TESTed supports two markup languages for the exercises: Markdown and HTML.
```

> The descriptions could be both written in English and Dutch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The descriptions can be written in both English and Dutch.
```

Which parts of the description should be generated for a programming language?

- **Function names**:

>   The style conventions for function names are programming language depended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The style conventions for function names are programming language dependant.
```

  Example: Python uses the `snake_case` convention, Java uses the `camelCase` convention.
- **Type names**:
  One of the larger difference between programming languages are the names that are used for the same datatype.

>   Example 8-bit integers: Java uses the name `byte`, Haskell uses the name `Data.Int.Int8`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For example, 8-bit integers: in Java they're called `byte`, while Haskell uses `Data.Int.Int8`.
```

> - **Natural type names**:

Reviewer: Is this the term for these types? Perhaps something like "Type names in natural language"

>   The natural types names, more specific these for collections of values, could also differ for a programming language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The type names in natural language, especially those for collections, also differ between programming languages.
```

>   In JavaScript, you speak about arrays, but in Python, you speak about lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For example, JavaScript has arrays, while Python has lists. Similarly, Java has maps, while Python has dictionaries.
```

>   However, the datastructures is the same for both languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  However, the data structures are the same for both languages.
```

- **Code examples**:

>   The biggest difference between programming languages, is the syntax used to write code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The biggest difference between programming languages is the syntax used to write code.
```
Also where is the example?

  
## Constants

> First we will look to the constants that could be used in the templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First we will look at the constants that can be used in the templates.
```

- **prompt**:

>   This constant contains the console-prompt-prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This constant contains the prefix for the console prompt.
```

  In the HTML template it will be the escaped version.
  Example: `>>>` for Python.
- **language and language_html**:

>   These constants contains the name of the programming language, wherefore an instance is generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  These constants contain the name of the programming language for which an instance is generated.
```
(wherefore != waarvoor)

  `language_html` is the HTML-safe version of `language`.
- **namespace and namespace_html**:

>   These constants contains the `namespace` of the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  These constants contain the `namespace` of the code.
```

>   The namespace could be passed as a parameter to the conversion program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The namespace can be passed as a parameter to the conversion program.
```

#### Markdown
Template:
```mako
The prompt for **${language}** is `${prompt}`.
The namespace is '${namespace}'.
```

Instance Java:
```markdown
The prompt for **java** is `>`.
The namespace is 'Solution'.
```

Instance Python:
```markdown
The prompt for **python** is `>>>`.
The namespace is 'solution'.
```

#### HTML
Template:
```mako
<p>
    The prompt for <span style="font-weight: bold">${language_html}</span> is <code>${prompt}</code>.
    The namespace is '${namespace_html}'.
</p>
```

Instance JavaScript:
```html
<p>
    The prompt for <span style="font-weight: bold">javascript</span> is <code>&gt;</code>.
    The namespace is 'submission'.
</p>
```

## Functions
As already indicated in the section [Constants](#constants) Mako also supports functions.

We will again given an overview of all available functions that could be used in the templates with some examples.

- **function_name**:
  This function is used the generated the correct style conventions for the function names.
  The input of this function is one string.
  ::: tip Hint
  When you pass the function name in the template, it's best to use the `snake_case` style convention.

>   This makes it possible to generate the correct function names foreach language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This makes it possible to generate the correct function names for each language.
```

  :::
- **type_name**:
  This function is used to translate the TESTed datatypes to the programming language datatypes.
  The input of this function is either a string, or a pair as type argument.  
  The first argument of the pair must be a collection datatype string,
  the second either one type argument, or a list of type arguments.
- **natural_type_name**:

>   This function searches the natural name for a collectiondatatype and/or the string-datatype of TESTed for a given

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This function searches the natural name for a collection datatype and/or the string datatype of TESTed for a given
```

  programming language.
  The input of this function is one string.
- **statement and expression**:

>   This functions are not meant to use by the redactor of the descriptions.

Reviewer: What do you mean by redactor? The author of the descriptions?

>   This functions are not meant to use by the redactor of the descriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  These functions are not meant to use by the redactor of the descriptions.
```

>   But for the sake of completeness, they are listed anyway.

Reviewer: If not meant to be used, we shouldn't mention them, since people will use them anyway, regardless of the warning.

>   This functions are used to convert code snippets in the mini-programming language of TESTed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  These functions are used to convert code snippets in the mini-programming language of TESTed
```

  programming languages.
  - **statement** must be used for all input code snippets.
  - **expression** must be used for all return values.
  
  Both functions expect a string as argument.

### Example
Now we look at a Markdown example description for Python and JavaScript.

Template:
```mako
The function ${function_name("characterize_string")} takes one
${type_name("text")} as argument and returns the ${natural_type_name("sequence")}
of characters of type ${type_name(("sequence", "char"))}.
```

Instance JavaScript:
```markdown
The function `characterizeString` takes one
`string` as argument and returns the array
of characters of type `array<string>`.
```

Instance Python:
```markdown
The function `characterize_string` takes one
`str` as argument and returns the list
of characters of type `List[str]`.
```

## Code examples
An important possibility for the template descriptions, was the simplicity to notate the code examples.
This is the only functionality that slightly differs between the Markdown and HTML version.
The biggest difference is the way how the code blocks are represented.

> The content of these code blocks are the same for both markup languages.

Reviewer: Is this something that should go into a technical reference? It looks more like something for a guide or thesis to me.

### Code snippets

> The code snippets must be notated in the mini-programming language of TESTed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code snippets must be written in the mini-programming language of TESTed
```

"And now for something completely different."\
</code></pre>
</div>
```

Instance Haskell:
```html
<div class="highlighter-rouge language-haskell">
<pre class="highlight"><code class="color tested code" id="code">&gt; <span class="nf">encode</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="s">&quot;And now for something completely different.&quot;</span><span class="p">)</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="mi">1</span> <span class="ow">::</span> <span class="kt">Int</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="s">&quot;And now for something completely different.&quot;</span></code></pre>
</div>
```

## Language specific information
The Mako-templates have also conditional constructs,
this makes it possible to add information for only one specific programming language.

### Example
We will look to an example in Markdown for Java and C, but a similar structure could be used in HTML.

Template:
```mako
Common text

% if language == 'java':
The function must be static declared in the class ${namespace}.
% endif
```

Instantie Java:
```markdown
Common text

The function must be static declared in the class Solution.
```

Instantie C:
```markdown
Common text
```

## Custom variables

> When you use a name frequent in the text, you can define a variable in Make,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you frequently use a name in the text, you can define a variable in Mako,
```

the advantages is avoiding multiple function calls that returns the same value.

### Example
We will now look at an example in Markdown without instances.
```mako
<% list = natural_type_name("list") %>\
Write a function ${function_name("heir")}, with has two parameters $k$ en $n$,
which have both the type ${type_name("integer")}, you may assume that $k >= 2$.
The function must return a ${list} of the type ${type_name(("list", "integer"))}
that contains the order of the removed children of the circle.
The first removed child must be at the first position in the ${list},
and the eventuual heir must last in the ${list}.
Use the numbers which are used to order the children in the ${list},
as elements in the ${list}.
```

## Complete HTML template
Below follows a complete HTML template description.
```mako

> <p>

Reviewer: Is this useful? Especially the console prompt is basically unreadable.

Author: I think it's useful to indicate that the prompt will be html encoded.

            <li> a text (${type_name("text")}) encoded according to the rail fence
            cipher and</li>
            <li>the number (${type_name("integer")}) of rails used in the coding
            scheme.</li>
        </ol>
        The function must return a string (${type_name("text")}) containing the
        original text after decoding.
    </li>
</ul>

% if language == 'java':
<p> The functions must be static declared in the class ${namespace_html}.</p>
% endif

<h3>Example</h3>

<div class="highlighter-rouge language-${language}">
<pre class="highlight"><code class="tested" id="code">\
> encode("And now for something completely different.", 1)
"And now for something completely different."
> encode("And now for something completely different.", 2)
"Adnwfrsmtigcmltl ifrn.n o o oehn opeeydfeet"

> decode("And now for something completely different.", 1)
"And now for something completely different."
> decode("Adnwfrsmtigcmltl ifrn.n o o oehn opeeydfeet", 2)
"And now for something completely different."\
</code></pre>
</div>
```

## Instances of the template
To instantiate the templates for a programming language, you can use a Python script that is in TESTed repository.

> This script could be found at the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/dodona-edu/universal-judge) of TESTed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script can be found at the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/dodona-edu/universal-judge) of TESTed.
```

> The script could be runned with one of the following commands (and combinations) in the root directory of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script can be run with one of the following commands (and combinations) in the root directory of the
```
